Computer Science is the study of computers and computational systems. Unlike electrical and computer engineers, computer scientists deal mostly with software and software systems; this includes their theory, design, development, and application.

Principal areas of study within Computer Science include artificial intelligence, computer systems and networks, security, database systems, human computer interaction, vision and graphics, numerical analysis, programming languages, software engineering, bioinformatics and theory of computing.

Although knowing how to program is essential to the study of computer science, it is only one element of the field. Computer scientists design and analyze algorithms to solve programs and study the performance of computer hardware and software. The problems that computer scientists encounter range from the abstract-- determining what problems can be solved with computers and the complexity of the algorithms that solve them – to the tangible – designing applications that perform well on handheld devices, that are easy to use, and that uphold security measures.

Graduates of University of Maryland’s Computer Science Department are lifetime learners; they are able to adapt quickly with this challenging field.

Computer Engineering
What Is Computer Engineering?
Computer Engineering combines the fields of electrical engineering and computer science to create new computer hardware and software. They're involved in the design of computer architecture and function across roles as software and hardware engineers. This field deals not necessarily with the virtual world we see but the physical components of computers systems. Computer engineering is responsible for the rise of microchips, powerful processors held within our hands (hello iPad), and the race to artificial intelligence robotics and nano-processors.

Learn Computer Engineering
Building a career in computer engineering requires a solid foundation in hardware, software, operating systems, computer architecture, electrical engineering, and a variety of subdisciplines. Computer engineers make sure the physical and virtual systems integrate seamlessly. You need an intimate understanding of computer systems to build your career and to be on the front end of innovation.